# 2.03 Short Declaration Operator

프로그래밍 용어(programming terminology)에 대하여 살펴보도록 하자.

`:=`는 short variable declaration 라고 하며, 이는 값(value)을 변수(variable)에 할당(assign)할 때 사용한다. 예를 들면, 값(value) `42`를 변수(variable) `x`에 대입 (assign)하면 아래와 같다.

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	x := 42
	fmt.Println("Hello, playground")
}
```

**Short declaraion**은 코드 블록(code block)안에서만 사용할 수 있다. `Go`의 경우, 여러분들이 코드에서 생성한 변수는 반드시 사용하게끔 되어 있기 때문에, 위의 코드는 다음과 같은 에러 메시지를 발행한다: `tmp/sandbox141801923/main.go:8: x declared and not used`.  
  
만약에 여러분이 `x`를 출력한다면, 더이상 위의 메시지를 표시하지 않을 것이다.  
우리는 또한 **Short declaration operator**를 이용하여 다른 타입의 데이터를 변수에 배정(assign)할 수 있다. 예를 들면, `string` 타입을 아래와 같이 사용 가능 하다.

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	x := 42
	y := "James Bond"
	fmt.Println(x, y)
}
```

Let's talk about Operators and Operands, Statements and Expressions, and Keywords.  
  
Programming languages have _keywords_, also known as _reserved words_. These are words that the programming language uses, and cannot be used as variable names. For example, in go the word "package" is reserved.  
  
If we try to use "package" as a variable name, we'll get an error: `tmp/sandbox916074896/main.go:8: syntax error: unexpected package, expecting }`
```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	package := 42
	y := "James Bond"
	fmt.Println(package, y)
}
```
However, variations such as "packages" can be used. It's only the exact work "package" that is a _reserved keyword_.
```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	packages := 42
	y := "James Bond"
	fmt.Println(packages, y)
}
```

Go [Keywords](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Keywords)  
```
break        default      func         interface    select
case         defer        go           map          struct
chan         else         goto         package      switch
const        fallthrough  if           range        type
continue     for          import       return       var
```
  
[Operators and Delimiters](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Operators_and_Delimiters)  
```
+    &     +=    &=     &&    ==    !=    (    )
-    |     -=    |=     ||    <     <=    [    ]
*    ^     *=    ^=     <-    >     >=    {    }
/    <<    /=    <<=    ++    =     :=    ,    ;
%    >>    %=    >>=    --    !     ...   .    :
     &^          &^=
```

You can see `:=` as one of these operators. In the statement `x := 42 + 7` `+` is also an operator (the addition operator). `42` and `7` are operands.  
  
Let's talk a little bit about [statements](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statement_(computer_science)) and [expressions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expression_(computer_science)). `42 + 7` is an expression. Expressions evaluate to something. A statement is a line of code that does something. Statements usually occupy an entire line by themselves, and can include expressions. `x := 42 + 7` is a statement.  
  
"A statement is the smallest standalone element ... that expresses some action to be carried out."  
  
"An expression ... is a combination of one or more explicit values, constants, variables, operators, and functions that the programming language interprets ... and computes to produce ... another value."  
  
The main takeaway from this sesssion is that there's a short declaration operator, `:=` which is a common way to assign a value to a variable. You can only use it inside a code block (inside curly braces {}).  
  
This will not work
```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

x := 42

func main() {
	y := "James Bond"
	fmt.Println(x, y)
}
```
The scope is only within the function, after the declaration, so this will also throw an error, because `x` and `y` have not yet been declared.  

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	fmt.Println(x, y)  /* x and y are not yet declared */
	x := 42
	y := "James Bond"
	fmt.Println(x, y)
}
```

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	x := 42 + 7
	y := "James Bond"
	fmt.Println(x)
	fmt.Println(y)
	x := 50
	fmt.Println(x)
}
```
Gives the error `tmp/sandbox208846163/main.go:12: no new variables on left side of :=`  
  
What that means is that `x` already exists. If I change line 12 to `x = 50`, this will work.  
  
So, we have seen what the short declaration operator is. We can use it to assign a value to a new variable. We can mutate that value with the `=` operator. We also learned some terminology like expressions and statements.  

In the next video, we will talk about another way we can assign values to variables and declare variables, but outside of a code block.  
  
