# 2.6 Zero Value

To understand the zero value, we also have to understand initialization. In order to do that, let's do a little review about declaring and assigning.  
  
```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

var z int // DELCARE a VARIABLE is of TYPE int

func main() {
	z = 21 // ASSIGN a VALUE to that variable
	fmt.Println(z)	 
}
```
We _declare_ a variable and its type, then we _assign_ a _value_ of the right type to that variable.  
  
Initialization is the _initial time you assign a value to a variable_. So, where we have ASSIGN, we could also call that initialize.  
  
[Initialization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initialization_(programming)): In computer programming, initialization is the assignment of an initial value for a data object or variable.  
  
It's the first time that you assign a value to a variable. Things in a computer are stored in memory. In the computer you have memory. Memory is like a big post office with post office boxes. Each of those PO boxes has an address, and you can store things in each PO box.  
  
The _initial_ time you store a value in memory, is called initialization. 
  
So, what happens if we declare a variable but do not assign a value to it, then try to print it out.  

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

var z int  // DELCARE a VARIABLE is of TYPE int

func main() {
	fmt.Println(z)
}
```
`0`  
  
Every type in Go has a zero value. If you declare a variable to be of a certain type, but we haven't assigned an initial value, then the compiler is going to assign that value for us. For an `int` it is `0`, for float it's `0.0` for a string it's the empty string, for bool it's `false`, and nil for pointers, functions, interfaces, slices, channels, maps.  
  
The official [documentation for zero value](https://golang.org/ref/spec#The_zero_value) says, "When storage is allocated for a variable, either through a declaration or a call of new, or when a new value is created, either through a composite literal or a call of make, and no explicit initialization is provided, the variable or value is given a default value."  
  
When storage (or memory) is allocated, and _no explicit initialization is provided_... so when you declare a variable, but don't assign a value, it will be assigned a zero value. 
 
